README.md, before:

# Minigin

Minigin is a very small project using [SDL2](https://www.libsdl.org/) and [glm](https://github.com/g-truc/glm) for 2D c++ game projects. It is in no way a game engine, only a barebone start project where everything sdl related has been set up. It contains glm for vector math, to aleviate the need to write custom vector and matrix classes.

[![Build Status](https://github.com/avadae/minigin/actions/workflows/msbuild.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/avadae/msbuild/actions)
[![GitHub Release](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/avadae/minigin?logo=github&sort=semver)](https://github.com/avadae/minigin/releases/latest)

# Goal

Minigin can/may be used as a start project for the exam assignment in the course 'Programming 4' at DAE. In that assignment students need to recreate a popular 80's arcade game with a game engine they need to program themselves. During the course we discuss several game programming patterns, using the book '[Game Programming Patterns](https://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/)' by Robert Nystrom as reading material. 

# Disclaimer

Minigin is, despite perhaps the suggestion in its name, not a game engine. It is just a very simple sdl2 ready project with some of the scaffolding in place to get started. None of the patterns discussed in the course are used yet (except singleton which use we challenge during the course). It is up to the students to implement their own vision for their engine, apply patterns as they see fit, create their game as efficient as possible.

# Use

Download the latest release of this project and compile/run in visual studio. Since students need to have their work on github too, they can use this repository as a template.

Commit message:

Update README.md; Fixed release builds (now works correctly)

README.md, after:

# Arcane Engine

Arcane Engine is a 2D game engine created for the Programming 4 course in Digital Arts and Entertainment. The engine uses the SDL library to handle the rendering of images and text, and is also used for the input and sound systems.

This repository focusses on the Game Engine itself, however inside the package it includes a remake of the game Galaga to provide en example project.

## Features

- **Component System**: A non-inheritance based component system that allows for easy and efficient game object management.
- **Scenegraph**: A hierarchical structure for handling ownership and spatial relationships between game objects.
- **Easy to Use Input System**: Comprehensive support for keyboard, mouse and controller inputs, simplifying user interaction handling.
- **Observer Pattern**: A design pattern implementation to facilitate communication between game objects and systems, promoting a decoupled architecture.
- **Service Locator for Sound**: A global access point for sound services, making it easy to manage and play audio throughout the game.
- **State Machine**: A simple state machine system for managing game states, enhancing control over game flow and logic.
- **2D Box Overlap Handler**: Handling of 2D box collisions for that broadcasts overlap Events to both overlapped objects.
